This is Vicki MacDonald in Holy Trinity Church, Landernau, during the longest yarn.
I'm talking to Eric Smith, who has memories of his childhood during the war.
Thank you, Eric.
So, where do you want to start?
What do you want to talk about?
Well, I was born in 1936, so I was almost three years old when the war started.
We lived in a fairly remote home near the top of the Pennines between Lancashire and
Yorkshire.
We had no air raid shelter there, I'm happy to talk about that.
So when the sirens went to indicate that there were enemy aircraft around, my mother, my
father and myself, we had to shelter under the table in the living room.
That was the only – the house was a stone-built house.
I do clearly remember one night the sirens went off.
We did go under the table and two bombs dropped close by, shaking the house.
I thought it was going to collapse.
I can remember that this was in the middle of the night.
I don't know, I'd be about four years old, I suppose.
I remember going out and standing on the edge of the craters made by the bombs because they
landed in fields near where we lived.
I can still remember standing on the edge and looking down into the crater.
No people were killed, but a lot of chickens and hens were at the time, but we lived in
the country then.
So your father was in an occupation?
My father was in what was called a reserved occupation.
So he wasn't called up for military service in that sense because he worked in a textile
mill which made the cloth for the uniforms for the military.
You kind of forget things like that, don't you?
He couldn't leave that occupation either.
He didn't particularly care for the work he did, but that's what he'd been brought
up to do since leaving school.
Because it was reserved, he could not leave until the very end of the war.
On the very first day after the end of the war, he did in fact leave and move to another
job.
As indeed, there were coal miners and people like that who had to work.
You couldn't move to another job.
He did his bit though in the evenings.
You said you moved?
Yes, he did move a little nearer to the mill where he worked and a little more populated
area.
In order to help the fire brigade, what was formed called the Auxiliary Fire Service,
which later became the National Fire Service.
So my father was not only working during the day, in the evening he was called out to put
fires out and to train and do all the things, learning how to tie knots and things.
I can remember my father having the book showing how to do these things that firemen
have to do, etc.
So did he go out most nights?
No, only when he was caught really.
In fact, I don't actually recall him going out to where a bomb had dropped, for example,
Nevertheless, there were fires and he went to a very big mill fire, a huge fire.
But nevertheless, he had to be available.
He was on call, shall we say.
And your mother, was she working also in the cellar?
No, no.
She looked after...
She stopped working and was at home with me at the end of the war.
So they both survived the war and life went on?
Yes, indeed.
Yes, yes.
Good to know.
I can remember, obviously, afterwards you can look back and think what did I miss?
It's silly little things.
I used to see railway trains and it said on the side, Palethorpe's sausages.
Now I had not the slightest idea what a sausage was because I'd never actually heard or seen
of sausages and things like that.
I don't know why, but it was an odd thing.
There were other things that were fairly common.
Obviously, many people can tell you about, I'd never seen a banana before and I wonder
what the...
I saw someone in a cinema queue eating this strange curved fruit and I went home and said
to my mother, I've seen someone eating a strange curved fruit.
She says, oh yes, that will be a banana.
Simple little things.
Thank you, Eric.